SQL
---

SQL is a Standard Computer Database Language 


What Exactly is SQL..?

the Sql is a tool for organizing and retrieving the data stored by a computer database,
Sql stands for Structured Query language and some people will call it as "Sequel"
when we want to store something or do something in the server we need to tell that to the server in server understanding format 
how come we can tell that to the system 

the answer for the above question is by using the SQL 

SQL is a computer language that we can use to interact with the database.


SQL is an interactive query language. Users type SQL commands into an interactive 
SQL program to retrieve data and display it on the screen, providing a convenient, 
easy-to-use tool for ad hoc database queries. 
 
 
SQL is a database programming language. Programmers embed SQL commands into 
their application programs to access the data in a database. Both user-written 
programs and database utility programs (such as report writers and data entry tools) 
use this technique for database access. 




Why it is important..?



what can it do and how does it works..?

when you need to retrieves data from database we use the Sql language to make the request, the DBMS(Data base management System)
process the Sql request, retrieves data, and returns to us.

this process of requesting data from database and receiving back the results is called database QUERY -> hence the name called 
STRUCTURED QUERY LANGUAGE 






what are the different types of SQL products..?
SQL server, Oracle, Informix, Sybase, DB2...etc


SQL Role
---------

SQL is not itself a database management system, nor it is a standalone product.
we can't go into computer store and "Buy the Sql" like other products 

SQL is a internal part of a DBMS, a language and a tool for communicating with the DBMS




SQL Features and Benefits
-------------------------

Vendor independence


SQL standards


High-level, English-like structure 

.
.
.
.
etc



























